website/integrations: netbird: cleanup (#21686)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/networking/netbird/index.mdx

---

import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";

## What is NetBird

> NetBird is an open source, zero trust networking platform that allows you to create secure private networks for your organization or home.
>
> -- https://netbird.io

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `netbird.company` is the FQDN of the NetBird installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::info
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## Configuration methods

NetBird can use authentik in two ways:

- **Management setup**: add authentik as an external identity provider while keeping NetBird's embedded IdP and local users.
- **Standalone setup**: replace NetBird's embedded IdP with authentik.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="management"
  values={[
    { label: "Management setup", value: "management" },
    { label: "Standalone setup", value: "standalone" },
  ]}>
  <TabItem value="management">

## authentik configuration

> To support adding authentik as an external identity provider in NetBird, you need to create an application/provider pair in authentik.

Reviewer: Should we mention app entitlements in the same way that we mention property mappings?

### Create an application and provider in authentik

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **New Application** to open the application wizard.
    - **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings. Note the **Slug** value because it will be required later.
    - **Choose a Provider type**: select **OAuth2/OpenID Connect** as the provider type.
    - **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
        - Note the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** values because they will be required later.

>         - Set **Client type** to `Confidential`.

Reviewer: This is the default value so it doesn't need to be mentioned

        - Leave **Redirect URIs/Origins** empty. NetBird generates the redirect URI in a later step.
        - Under **Advanced protocol settings** > **Selected Scopes**, add `authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'entitlements'`.
    - **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/bindings-overview/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

### Create application entitlements

> Use [application entitlements](/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps/#application-entitlements) to define the NetBird group values that authentik sends for this application.

Reviewer: I think we need a better template for explaining application entitlements and what they're doing.

```suggestion
Use [application entitlements](/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps/#application-entitlements) to define which NetBird groups can be assigned to authentik users.
```

> 1. Open the NetBird application in authentik.
> 2. Click the **Application entitlements** tab.
> 3. Create one entitlement for each NetBird group value that users should receive.
> 4. Open each entitlement and bind the users or groups that should receive it.
> 
> Name each entitlement exactly as the NetBird group value that NetBird should sync. This keeps NetBird-specific authorization scoped to the NetBird application instead of relying on global authentik group names.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the NetBird application in authentik.
2. Click the **Application entitlements** tab.
3. Create one entitlement for each NetBird group you want to assign to users.
4. Open each entitlement and bind the users or groups that should receive it.

Name each entitlement exactly as the NetBird group value that NetBird should sync. This keeps NetBird-specific authorization scoped to the NetBird application instead of relying on global authentik group names.

```

<Tabs
  defaultValue="management"
  values={[
    { label: "Management setup", value: "management" },
    { label: "Standalone setup", value: "standalone" },
  ]}>
  <TabItem value="management">

## authentik configuration

To support adding authentik as an external identity provider in NetBird, you need to create an application/provider pair in authentik.

### Create an application and provider in authentik

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **New Application** to open the application wizard.
    - **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings. Note the **Slug** value because it will be required later.
    - **Choose a Provider type**: select **OAuth2/OpenID Connect** as the provider type.
    - **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
        - Note the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** values because they will be required later.

>         - Set **Client type** to `Confidential`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        - Leave **Redirect URIs/Origins** empty. NetBird generates the redirect URI in a later step.
        - Select any available signing key.
        - Under **Advanced protocol settings** > **Selected Scopes**, add `authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'entitlements'`.
    - **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/bindings-overview/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

### Create application entitlements

Use [application entitlements](/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps/#application-entitlements) to define the NetBird group values that authentik sends for this application.

1. Open the NetBird application in authentik.
2. Click the **Application entitlements** tab.

> 3. Create one entitlement for each NetBird group value that users should receive.

Reviewer: Feel like there are better ways of phrasing this

        - Note the **Client ID** value because it will be required later.
        - Set **Client type** to `Public`.
        - Add a `Strict` redirect URI to `http://localhost:53000`.
        - Add a `Regex` redirect URI to `https://netbird.company/.*`.
        - Select any available signing key.
        - Under **Advanced protocol settings**, set **Access Code Validity** to `minutes=10`.
        - Under **Advanced protocol settings**, set **Subject Mode** to `Based on the User's ID`.
        - Under **Advanced protocol settings**, add the `authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'offline_access'`, `authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'entitlements'`, and `authentik default OAuth Mapping: authentik API access` scopes to **Selected Scopes**.
    - **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/bindings-overview/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

> :::warning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning Signing key required to maintain security
```

It is important to set a signing key to secure the provider because this is a `Public` client.
:::

> :::info

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info NetBird service account requires access to application
```
